# Disaster-Relief-Project
On January 12, 2010, a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 earthquake struck Haiti near the capital, Port-au-Prince. It caused widespread devastation, killing an estimated 230,000 people, injuring 300,000 more, and displacing over 1.5 million.i The earthquake destroyed much of the capital's infrastructure, including homes, hospitals, and government buildings. The disaster overwhelmed Haiti's limited resources prompting an international humanitarian response.
In the wake of this disaster, rescue workers faced significant operational difficulties delivering aid due to destroyed communications, impassable roads, and the vastness of the affected area. To aid rescue efforts, a team from the Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) collected high-resolution, geo-referenced imagery of the region. The imagery revealed that displaced individuals, whose homes were destroyed, were using blue tarps to construct temporary shelters.
These blue tarps had the potential to serve as crucial indicators of displaced persons’ locations. But locating them amidst thousands of images collected daily was an overwhelming task. The solution to this challenge was in data-mining algorithms, which could search and analyze the images more efficiently and accurately than manual methods.
This project applies statistical techniques to address this historical data-mining challenge. The objective of this project is to apply the techniques taught in the University of Virginia’s Data Science 6030 course (Statistical Learning) to the imagery data from the Haiti relief effort. The primary aim is to identify the most effective method to accurately locate displaced persons.
The project will be completed in two parts, with Part I focused on setting up a modeling workflow to build and evaluate three classification models—Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA), Quadratic Discriminant Analysis (QDA), and logistic regression—using cross-validation and performance metrics. This report summarizes Group 12’s work to complete Part 1 of the Disaster Relief Project in partial completion of the requirements of the course.
